---
tags:
  - Unicamp
  - Cource
  - Computational
---
Prerequisites:
	[[mc202]]
	[[Logic Circuits]]

Introdução à organização de computadores e representação de informação na memória. Estudo do conjunto de instruções de processadores relevantes. Desenvolvimento, implementação e testes de programas usando linguagens de montagem. Espaço de endereçamento físico e mapeamento de endereços para memória e periféricos. Programação de dispositivos de entrada e saída. Tratamento de interrupções.

- Introduction to digital computer architecture: Von Neumann machines vs. Harvard architectures; RISC architectures; microprocessors x microcontrollers.
- Memories - types and hierarchies; basic components of a CPU: UC, ULA, addressing, registers; I / O devices; phases of the execution of an instruction; machine language notions.
- Introduction to the AVR studio environment (Windows) of programming language in assembly language (_assembly_); debugger; execution step by step.
- Review of binary numbers and arithmetic operations; grade 1-complement and 2-complement; hexadecimal notation; ASCII characters; floating point numbers.
- Introduction to the architecture of the AVR ATxxx family: instructions and addressing modes.
- Introduction to assemblers and macro-assemblers; AVR assembly language programming. 
- AVR I / O: I / O registers; interrupts; timers; watch-dog timer. techniques for recording code on the AVR from a PC.
- Examples of AVR assembly language programming: arithmetic, I / O, interrupts, timers.
- Programming in C with microcontrollers: techniques, care; gcc compiler for the AVR
- Introduction to the AVR studio programming environment in C language (Windows); debugger; execution step by step.
- Gcc library for the AVR; usage examples. Programming exercises in C with the AVR.
- Introduction to connectors: static connection and dynamic connection.
- Notions of 32-bit microcontroller architectures: ARM, MIPS.
- Directory with **[manuals](http://ic.unicamp.br/en/%7Ecelio/mc404-2008/docs/) and AVR documentation**
